<style>
p {
    font-family: "Open Sans";
    font-size: 18px;
}
li {
    font-family: "Open Sans";
    font-size: 18px;
}
h2 {
    color: #4052a0 !important;
    margin-bottom: -20px;
}
a {
    text-decoration: underline;
}
.cargo, .skills {
    font-family: "Open Sans";
    margin-top: -35px;
    margin-bottom: -5px;
}
h6 {
    font-family: "Open Sans";
    margin-top: -4px;
    margin-bottom: 5px;
}
.github {
    margin-top: 3px;
    font-size: 14px;
}
ul li::before {
    color: #4052a0 !important;
}
.job-title {
    margin-top: -50px;
    font-size: 30px;
}
</style>
# Agustín Benassi
<strong><p class="job-title">Data Architect & Product Owner</p></strong>

## About me
<br>
Economist from Buenos Aires University and self taught programmer, currently working as Public Data Director at the Secretariat of Modernisation, part of the Argentina's Cabinet Office.

I have experience designing the data architecture of big organizations as well as for particular application systems, coding in Python and managing multidisciplinary teams with developers, designers, data analysts and project managers to build the different parts of a user centered data infrastructure.

In my daily work I design and enforce data standards, craft administrative resolutions, code, manage contracts, develop product requirements and negotiate with areas to get data assets properly developed, managed and published.

## Contact information
<br>
[​agusbenassi@gmail.com](mailto:​agusbenassi@gmail.com) | [twitter](https://twitter.com/agustinbenassi)| [github](https://github.com/abenassi) ​| [medium](https://medium.com/@agustinbenassi) ​| [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/agustinbenassi) ​

## Experience

#### Undersecretary of Open Government and Public Innovation · Cabinet Office of Argentina

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Public Data Director (Jun 2019 - current)</h6>
    <h6>Open Data Policy Coordinator (Jan 2018 - May 2019)</h6>
    <h6>Technology for Public Policy Adviser (Jan 2016 – Dec 2017)</h6>
</div>

I coordinate the design and implementation of the Open Data Policy at the national level, build an open data infrastructure and assist different government units in improving their data management capabilities.

I currently manage an in-house team of data analysts, designers, system administrators and product managers together with a contracted team of font-end, back-end and QA developers.

I also design and manage the implementation of data based technological solutions for particular projects with our government partners, and sometimes code or co-develop myself some of our Python solutions.
<br>
<br>

Products I have managed:

* [**Time Series API**](http://apis.datos.gob.ar/series) and related tools. A practical API to query time series data - following [​FRED](https://fred.stlouisfed.org)​s inspiration - and its ecosystem of tools to
transform data into time series, validate time series catalogs and visualize
time series on the web. This project required designing a metadata standard and several ETL routines, together with negotiating with partners data publishing and delivering within the system. Also I conducted user research to target specific data user needs for building user oriented product features.
<br>
<p class="github">[​Github repo​sitory](https://github.com/datosgobar/series-tiempo-ar-api)</p>
* [**Georef API​**](http://apis.datos.gob.ar/georef). An API to normalize geographical names in Argentina, geolocate addresses and expand coordinates associated data. This was a part of the national data architecture oriented to ease data assets interoperability.
<br>
<p class="github">[​Github repo​sitory](https://github.com/datosgobar/georef-ar-api)</p>
* [**Portal Andino**](https://datos.gob.ar). The technology behind the National Open Data Portal of Argentina and several portals of other ministries, provinces and cities. Built following a designed metadata standard for documenting data assets in Argentina and part of our federated strategy to consolidate management of different organizations data.
<br>
<p class="github">[​Github repo​sitory](https://github.com/datosgobar/portal-andino)</p>
* [**API Gateway**](https://github.com/datosgobar/api-gateway)​. A tool to manage public APIs, used to ease our data API developments.
* **Precios Claros**​ (not open source). I designed a technical data specification for a normative resolution under which supermarkets securely transfer daily prices lists across the country to a centralized data base. Also managed the development of the back-end and API of the system.

Other published open source projects from the [Public Data Direction](https://www.argentina.gob.ar/modernizacion/gobiernoabierto/datospublicos) are at ​[**Argentina’s Data Team Github**](http://github.com/datosgobar).

#### Buenos Aires City Government Laboratory

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Resident Innovator (Sep 2015 – Dec 2015)</h6>
</div>

Developed the prototype "Transport Oriented Development" at Buenos Aires City
Government Laboratory. I designed data requirements, model, ETL routine and final web application to meet public officials users needs in a challenging time schedule. I coded the backend in Python and frontend in Javascript.

#### Recurse Center

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Participant (Feb 2015 – May 2015)</h6>
</div>

The Recurse Center is a community-driven educational retreat for programmers in New York City. There I sharpen my programming technical skills together with a top notch technical community of international developers. Most of my projects were Python.

#### Center of Studies of the Situation and Perspectives of Argentina (CESPA) · University of Buenos Aires

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Research Assistant (Aug 2012 – Feb 2015)</h6>
</div>

Researched about freight transportation networks and Argentina's economic issues. I compiled and built structured data bases and programmed data based simulation models in Python to analyze research scenarios.

Some publications:

* Un Modelo de Costos para el Transporte Terrestre de Cargas en Argentina | [PDF](http://www.economicas.uba.ar/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/41-Modelo-de-costos-red-bimodal-vial-ferroviaria-de-transporte-de_cargas_10Jun15_AB_0.pdf)
* Transporte Automotor de Cargas en Argentina: una Estimación de Orígenes y Destinos - 2010 |
[On-line version](http://abenassi.github.io/od-cargas-arg-2010/) | [PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wd10mql0ixv9jj7/Documento%20de%20trabajo%20Nro%2037%20-%20CESPA.pdf?dl=1) | [Github repository](http://github.com/abenassi/od-cargas-arg-2010/)

#### Center for the Implementation of Public Policies for Equity and Growth (CIPPEC)

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Applied Research Assistant (Jun 2013 – Dec 2013)</h6>
</div>

Modeling and analyzing data bases about transportation and economics. I implemented ETL routines and compiled different data sources in Python,  oriented to feed research goals in efficient time frames.

#### Faculty of Economics · University of Buenos Aires

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Teaching Assistant (Jan 2012 – Dec 2017)</h6>
</div>

Compared Economic Systems​, ​Projects Evaluation and Industrial Organisation.

#### MiNU

<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Volunteer (Jan 2007 – Jun 2010)</h6>
</div>

Organizing events at civil association doing UN and legislative participative models for young people.

## Studies

#### University of Buenos Aires, Economics Science Faculty
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Economics Degree (2007 – 2013)</h6>
</div>

#### Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Bachellor’s Degree (2002 – 2006)</h6>
</div>

## Selected talks

#### Regional Conference of Open Data in Latin America and the Caribbean (CONDATOS 2019)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Participation on panel "Open Data Public Policies in the
Region".</h6>
</div>
#### International Open Data Conference (IODC 2018)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Participation on panel "Open Data Infrastructure: The Importance of Data Governance".</h6>
</div>
#### Belize Open Week (BOW 2018)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Talks and workshops over a week of training in Open Government and Open Data organized by the Organization of American States for the Government and civil society of Belize.</h6>
</div>
#### Regional Conference of Open Data in Latin America and the Caribbean (CONDATOS 2016)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Talk in the "Smart Cities" workshop about Open Data applied in urban contexts.</h6>
</div>
#### Regional Conference of Open Data in Latin America and the Caribbean (CONDATOS 2015)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>Workshop "Xlseries: a python package to scrape time series
from Excel files".</h6>
</div>

## Certifications

#### Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO 2017)
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>2 day workshop on PO topics and techniques.</h6>
</div>

## Skills
<br>
<br>
<div class="cargo skills">
    <h6>The strongest</h6>
</div>

`​Contracts Management - Data Design / Architecture - Product Management`
<br>
`Business Analysis - Team Leadership - Agile Development`
<br>
`User Centered Design - Python - Jupyter Notebooks - SQL`
<br>
<br>
<br>
<div class="cargo">
    <h6>The rest</h6>
</div>

`JavaScript - HTML - CSS - PostGIS - Git - Github`
<br>
`PEGs - Travis CI - Coveralls`
<br>
<br>
